most important things remember grip and
backswing I'm amazed at how little
attention is given to the grip but there
are certain grips that make it very easy
to be vertical at contact and some that
make it very difficult and remember in
ninety percent of your shots in this
game you want the racket vertical when
you hit the ball as an example if you
are holding a continental grip with the
index knuckle on number two when you
bring the racket back you'll notice the
racket looks nice and vertical here but
as you swing up to hit the ball the
racket is naturally open so this
requires a forearm and a wrist roll but
this is a millisecond happening here so
if your timing is not perfect for
instance if you're swinging up and
you're open the ball is hitting the back
fence if you swing too early the ball
goes down if you roll too early rather
ball goes down if your timing is perfect
okay you keep the ball on the court and
then you're thinking see all I need is
more practice wrong you really need to
get rid of this roll because you can
practice from now until forever and it's
gonna be very difficult to do this on a
consistent base
beyond the baseline it's usually because
the racket is tilted or laid back at
contact other than slice shots on 90
percent of your shots in this game you
want the racket vertical when you make
contact with the ball usually players
make the mistake of being open on the
backswing when I talk about the
backswing what I'm talking about is what
you do from the ready position to here
that's your backswing from here to here
is considered your backswing now if I
bring the racket back now watch my
racket head here if I bring it back and
the racket face opens up see I've made a
movement with my wrist and forearm and
open the racket face up now I have to
make a corresponding movement with my
wrist and forearm like this to make the
racket vertical so remember that if
you're hitting long the racket is tilted
back or laid
and the mistake is probably made on your
backswing you're opening the face of the
racket okay this next drill concentrate
on this one if you're having the problem
of hitting your forehand long beyond the
baseline remember by keeping the racket
face closed on your backswing that's key
many players open up on the backswing so
keep it closed as you're coming back and
the palm of the hand facing down at the
low point of the backswing when that
racquets a foot below the ball the
contact point the palm of the hand is
facing down so remember now use your
brain tell yourself face closed palm
down that way you'll be sending the
signals to your body and you'll be doing
it when you need to all right here we go
we're thinking face closed palm down
notice the racket face is closed on the
backswing at this point the palm is down
the racket face is closed this prevents
for hands beyond the baseline
if that I recommend for your forehand is
either Eastern or semi Western okay now
using our racket handle remember it's
octagonal or eight sided so we're going
to give those sides numbers starting on
top we've got number one a little bevel
on side on the side there is two three
here on the side four underneath and
five all the way on the bottom now it'd
be the same thing for a left-hander
going the other way
fives always on the bottom ones always
on top now using the hand is our
reference point we're going to use the
index knuckle on the inside of the hand
where that X is and we've got an X on
the heel of the hand now for an Eastern
grip we're going to put those X's on
number three remember number three s
over here so we put the X on the side of
the handle number three that's our
eastern grip okay now with Eastern
you're going to have to push the palm of
the hand down slightly to close the face
of the racket because remember a closed
face racket at the low point of the
backswing will guarantee you a vertical
racket at contact now semi-western grip
we're going to take the X's on the hand
and we're going to put them on number
four four is that little bevel just
underneath so we put the x's on number
four and we notice that the racket face
is automatically closed so this take the
takes the guesswork out once the racket
is automatically closed at the low point
of the backswing simply swing from the
shoulder and you're guaranteed vertical
at contact
you
ready position if you're holding your
forehand grip if you have the the index
knuckle and the heel of the the X's on
number for the racket face will
automatically be closed then just
remember keep it closed as you come back
and the rackets closed at the low point
of the backswing now if you're on number
three the racket is going to tend to
pretty much stand up straight ahead so
close the face of the racket in your
ready position by pushing the palm
inward okay so now you're close and
you're closed at the low point of the
back
you
times players fail to get the racket one
foot below the ball because they're not
bending their knees
you know tennis pros are famous for
saying bend your knees but remember the
reason you're bending is to get the
racket down if you've been but the
racket stays up you're defeating the
purpose so remember to keep your hitting
shoulder loose and relaxed so the racket
drops down if you notice right now my
rear shoulder is slightly lower than my
front shoulder now I have a nice low to
high remember wherever you're contacting
the ball whether it's knee high waist
high or shoulder high wherever it is you
have to get the racket at least a foot
lower than that point trade on this next
drill and it's all you need to know for
the rest of your life as far as clearing
the net one foot below shoulder to the
chin remember you've got to drop that
racket a foot below the contact point
before you swing forward and up shoulder
to the chin again is going to prevent
forearm and wrist roll so concentrate on
our two points one foot below shoulder
to the chin here we go
at this point the racket is one foot
below the contact point this ensures a
nice low to high swing which gives you
neck clearance
you